I noticed several years ago that when I took analgesics fairly regularly,
(motrin at the time), I seemed to get a lot of migraines.  But had
forgotten about that until I started reading some of the posts here.
I generally don't take NSAIDS or Tylenol for headaches, because I've
found them to be ineffective.  However, I have two other pain sources
that force me to take NSAIDS (currently Naprosyn).  First, is some
pelvic pain that I get at the beginning of my period, and then much
worse at midcycle.  I have had surgery for endometriosis in the past
(~12 years ago), so the Drs. tell me that my pain is probably due
to the endometriosis coming back.  I've tried Synarel, it reduced
the pain while I took it (3 mos), but the pain returned immediately
after I stopped.  Three doctors have suggested hysterectomy as the
only "real solution" to my problem.  Although I don't expect to have
any more children, I don't like the idea of having my uterus and
one remaining ovary removed (the first ovary was removed when I had
the surgery for endometriosis).  One of the Drs that suggested
I get a hysterectomy is an expert in laser surgery, but perhaps thinks
that type of procedure is only worthwhile on women who still plan
to have children.  So basically all I'm left with is toughing out
the pain.  This would be impossible without Naprosyn (or something
similar - but not aspirin, that doesn't work, and Motrin gave me
horrible gastritis a few years ago, so I'm through with it).  In
fact, Naprosyn works very well at eliminating the pain if I take
it regularly as I did when I had severe back pain (and pain in both 
legs) as I'll discuss in a moment.  Generally though, I wait until
I have the pain before I take the Naprosyn, but then it takes
several hours for it reduce the pain (it's actually quite effective
at reducing the pain, it just takes quite a while).  In the meantime
I'm frequently in severe pain.

The other pain source I have is chronic lower back pain resulting in
bilateral radiculopathy.  I've had MRIs, Xrays, CT scan, and EMGs
(I've had 2 of them, and don't intend to ever do that again) with
nerve conduction tests.  The tests have not been conclusive as to
what is causing my back and leg pain.  The MRI reports both say I have
several bulging, degeneratig disks, and from the Xrays (and MRI, I think)
it is apparent that I have arthritis.  The reading on the CT scan
was that there are two herniations (L3-L4, and L4-L5), but others
hav looked at the films and concluded that there are no herniations.
The second EMG and nerve conduction studies shows significant denervation
compared to the first EMG.  Oh yeah, I had some other horrible test,
called something like Somatic Evoked Response which showed that the
"internal nerves" are working fine.   Anyway, the bottom line is that
I sometimes have severe pain in both legs and back pain.  The back pain
is there all the time, but I can live with it.  When the leg pain is there,
I need some analgesic/anti-inflammatory medication to reduce the pain
to a level where I can work.

